# Duolingo

The brand personality of Duolingo builds on these five words:

- Inspiring – anything is possible when you Duolingo
- Inclusive – everyone is welcome to learn on Duolingo
- Can-do – we’re all about rooting for our learners and helping them make progress
- Curious – knowing even a little bit of another language makes your life better
- Quirky – we put the fun in language fundamentals

## Voice

The Duolingo voice is how our brand personality comes through in words. When our voice is consistent across Duolingo content, it builds trust and familiarity. The tone will change based on the situation, but the voice is always uniquely Duolingo.  

[Brand Guidelines - Duolingo](https://design.duolingo.com/writing/voice)

### **Expressive**

We use simple words and phrases to convey big feelings.

> **Expressive means:**
> 
> - Brief –  Language belongs to everyone ✅
> - Active voice – Check your answer ✅
> - Direct – Finish lessons to earn experience points, or XP ✅
> - Excited – You did it! ✅
> - In your push notifications –  Ready for a break? It's time to Duolingo! ✅
> 
> **not:**
> 
> - Long-winded – We believe that language learning is an essential right that people should have regardless of where they live or how much money they have. ❌
> - Passive voice – You can see how you did by checking your answer ❌
> - Unclear – Level up to get XP ❌
> - Indifferent – Congratulations ❌
> - In your face – Hey, do you still want to learn Portuguese or not? Open the app now. ❌

### Playful

We bring creativity to the conversation.

> **Playful means:**
> 
> - Friendly
> - Jolly – Well done! ✅
> - Creative – Keep the flame lit! ✅
> - Clever in quick doses – Watch her incredible command of Portuguese — we are super impressionados! ✅
> 
> **Not:**
> 
> - Touchy-feely
> - Sarcastic or smug – Well look at you. ❌
> - Dry – Maintain your streak! ❌
> - Intellectual – Je ne sais quoi makes French so much fun to learn. It's utterly incroyable. ❌

### **Embracing**

Whoever you are, we're your biggest cheerleader.

> **Embracing means:**
> 
> - Supportive – Not quite correct. Try again! ✅
> - Gender-neutral (they, them) – Kamala sent you a health refill! Tell them thanks. ✅
> - Uses contractions – You're making progress! ✅
> - Clear – Pause notifications ✅
> - Well-meaning
> 
> **Not:**
> 
> - Aggressive – WRONG ❌
> - Gendered (him, her, his, her) – Kamala sent you a health refill! Tell him or her thanks. ❌
> - Writing words out – You are making progress! ❌
> - Complicated – Take a snooze (This works as a header, but not a CTA) ❌
> - Mean-spirited

### **Worldly**

We are interested and knowledgeable, and we have a broad worldview.

> **Worldly means:**
> 
> - Interested – Rocket science, anyone? German fluency is a requirement for this job with NASA. ✅
> - Knowledgeable – Traveling to Westeros this weekend? Check out these 10 High Valyrian phrases all Westerosi tourists should know! (Shows knowledge of GoT. We're not poseurs.) ✅
> - Universal – Excellent! ✅
> - Multilingual (but English first) – ¡Felicitaciones, Martin! 👏👏👏 (replying to a Spanish speaker on Twitter) ✅
> 
> **Not:**
> 
> - Smug –  [Exclusively sharing Duolingo content.] ❌
> - A know-it-all – Learn 10 High Valyrian phrases before the Game of Thrones premiere this weekend. ❌
> - Slang or references not everyone knows – You're such a boss. ❌
> - English only – Congrats, Martin! (in English to respond to a Spanish speaker, using English slang) ❌

## Tone

Tone is all about reading the room. Duolingo's voice will always stay the same, but we adapt the tone to the audience's state of mind. The right tone takes judgment. Think about how the audience may be feeling, then write to that feeling with empathy. Regardless of the subject matter or situation, always strive to be clear, human, and relaxed.

[Brand Guidelines - Duolingo](https://design.duolingo.com/writing/tone)

### Content

Since language is such a huge concept that everyone can relate to, Duolingo content runs the gamut. Sometimes we'll share funny pop-culture references. Sometimes we'll share content that's much more serious. This content can coexist if we're careful about tone.

### Context

The Duolingo app is full of positive and negative moments. It's important to watch our tone as learners navigate them.

> When learners succeed, we **celebrate** them. Bust out the exclamation points!
> 
> 
> **Like this:**
> 
> - Correct! ✅
> - Awesome work! ✅
> 
> **Not this:**
> 
> - You are correct ❌
> - You have successfully passed this level ❌
> 
> When learners stumble, we **support** them. This is the time for friendly, helpful language — but don't overdo it. We want them to keep going!
> 
> **Like this:**
> 
> - Not quite correct. Try again! ✅
> - Oh no! You're out of health. Want to ask a friend for a refill? ✅
> 
> **Not this:**
> 
> - Incorrect. ❌
> - We're very sorry, but you don't have any health left. Hopefully, a friend will share some health with you — do you want to ask them? ❌

## Style

These style guidelines help us construct our content to be clear and consistent. As with everything else we do at Duolingo, user-friendliness is our guiding force. Our grammar and style rules are based on usability, not always what's proper.

[Brand Guidelines - Duolingo](https://design.duolingo.com/writing/style)

### Numerals

Write all numbers numerically, even numbers under 10. But if a number starts a sentence, spell it out. (If it's a really big number like 5,678, rewrite the sentence so it doesn't start with the number.)

If the number is over 999, include a comma. **But don't include a comma for XP or other currency totals in the product.**

> like this: 
You're on a 4 day streak! ✅
Three dogs begged for treats. ✅

not this:
You're on a four day streak! ❌
3 dogs begged for treats. ❌
> 

### Emoji

Emoji are super useful. They convey information. They grab attention. But a little emoji go a long way.

This is a list of emoji that was compiled manually to be somewhat relevant to random Duolingo notifications and should all be acceptable with our branding:

[Brand Guidelines - Duolingo](https://design.duolingo.com/resources#emoji)

### Punctuation

Punctuation marks help us break information into readable chunks. They also dictate the tone of our content! (Like so!) We have some hard-and-fast rules for which punctuation marks we use where....and which we really, really try to avoid.

[Brand Guidelines - Duolingo](https://design.duolingo.com/writing/style#punctuation)

> Don't punctuate headlines, except with an exclamation point.
> 
> 
> **Like this:**
> 
> - Freeze your streak ✅
> - Keep the flame lit! ✅
> 
> **Not this:**
> 
> - Freeze your streak. ❌
> - Keep the flame lit. ❌
> 
> Don't punctuate subheads, unless with an exclamation point. If it's a multi-sentence subhead, punctuate each sentence.
> 
> **Like this:**
> 
> - You're on day 1 of 7 ✅
> - You're on day 1 of 7. Keep going! ✅
> 
> **Not this:**
> 
> - You're on day 1 of 7. ❌
> - You're on day 1 of 7. Keep going ❌
> 
> Never use punctuation in a button.
> 
> **Like this**
> 
> - NO THANKS ✅
> 
> **Not this**
> 
> - NO, THANKS ❌

…and there is a lot more about formatting, parts of speech, etc., capitalization but this page would be too long for that.